---
layout: post
title: "The Key of Solomon"
author: "accumulation-vector"
permalink: /books/07-2024/
---

Another in the string of texts I've been reading this year on my journey to refresh or learn more about the occult. This one in particular is a much older text that was probably poorly translated and edited together by people in the early 1900s with an agenda. Reading Goetia in a raw form like this is often much more interesting and engaging than reading new age 'magick' thinkers in my opinion.

If you have a chance to pick up ancient Goetic texts on demonic summoning or other forms of ritual magic, definitely do so they are very wonderful and interesting works. What I always end up thinking to myself while I read texts like this are what the source material for any of this is? How much of these texts are the author on a whimsical journey creating a new mythology creatively from their own head and how much is actually based in some ancient tradition?

The symbolic pentacles and other symbols within this are always neat to look at. Again did this person just generate a series of random symbols out of thin air and create a whole system based around this? That alone is fascinating, as is the fact that it is published originally in an anonymous form. It is a piece of this person that they have spent years crafting and putting out in the world. Did the original authors actually believe the things they were creating and writing? Was there something more to it than meets the eye? Very intriguging text.
