---
layout: post
title:  "Now"
author: "accumulation-vector"
---

I learned about the concept of a [now page](https://nownownow.com/about) recently and I thought I would give it a shot, it seems as though most people update them regularly instead of just remaining stagnant. For now I'm just trying it out though, if people find it interesting I'll do it properly.

## Location:
In midwest America as I have been for several years now. Aiming to move to the east coast in late July where I accepted a job offer. Looking for a small two bedroom in that area currently.

## Reading: 
Artificial Intelligence by Norvig/Russell, and Quantum Information by Mark Wile. I'm rereading the former because it has been a long time since I thought about AI from first principles and I have been wanting to devote some time to the topic again from my current perspective. 

The second is completely new ground to me, I have almost no understanding of quantum theory or physics whatsoever, but I have a strong information theoretic security background that seems to be sufficient thus far. I want to understand quantum information theory really badly because it is a huge gap in my knowledgeset. 

## Writing:
Trying to dedicate more time to updating this site and producing audio content which is pretty new to me. I've done a few test runs of recording podcasts and streaming but the form leaves something big to be desired. I'm not sure I'm cut out for audio without having everything scripted out before hand in loads of detail.

## Projects:
See my recent post on project ideas that I find interesting, these are what I hope to keep working on for the forseeable future.

## Thought:
Thinking mostly about prediction markets and smart contracts. What are the limits of these forms? How can different entities use these forms to their advantage? What are the potential pitfalls of combining these forms?

My current focus has mostly been on trying to build up an online presence of any kind since my previous disposition to anonymity has caused me to underdevelop myself and my identity online. My presence in the world is far below what it should have reasonably been if I was trying to put myself out there instead of neurotically worrying about privacy. 

It feels almost impossible to do anything now without an online personage that exists in some space. Given my line of interest I want to build up a body of work online to at the very least showcase what I've been thinking about and writing on in private. Even if it is of no interest to most people I think that hopefully someone will find it amusing enough to engage with.